# Another Pivot

Date: 2025-09-30

Author: Levi Willms

### Introduction

Our attention is occupied by so many things each day that we often don't have the time to question our perceptions and think about the answers. As I am now one month into the fall semester of my final year of University I have felt the effects of too many distractions and not enough deeply focused time. Here I aim to counter that. Working on a thesis this semester gives me ample opportunity to reflect, learn, research and write. All things I am eager to do. However, if these last four weeks have been any indication of the next 28 then I will do none of the above even moderately. This means a change is necessary to achieve the goal of producing some relevant work of research.

My aim with these blog-style journal entries is to track the progression of my thesis over time. I want to write an entry each week and my hope is that in doing so there will be some high-level view of the progression at the end. Though, research is hardly ever linear. So it will be interesting to see the relative path that this journey will take me on. Not only will it yield some potentially interesting output at the end, but it will also greatly assist in the formation of thought and ideas during the endeavor. Something which I hope will prove helpful to this scientific process I have decided to undertake.

### State of Research

After a brief hiatus from meeting our team (Ken and I) got together to discuss the first steps of the thesis with the intention of finally beginning some thesis work. This discussion proved highly productive. We were able to come to a mutual understanding that regardless of which exact problem we will be tackling with the thesis I must begin to build.

Ken shared some thoughts on the importance of demonstration. Notably that only through demonstration does one actually get to building. A concept on which I agree. However, I would abstract that notion to the process of sharing ideas. Only through the communication of ideas is one able to test their theory to find its validity. Regardless of the method of delivery (verbal, written, video or other communication), our ideas can only be fully realized once they leave our minds and are interpreted in the minds of others. Otherwise man can derive all kinds of incorrect assumptions about reality and never come to the realization of the truth. Thus, they live in the false reality of their minds, giving into delusions. One might say they take the `red pill`.

### Next Steps

The baby steps that we decided to undertake two weeks ago was to find a dataset to which we can analyze. This has been done in part, for I have gathered a number of textbooks that can be parsed into markdown, or any other, format. The goal here is to take a PDF document and put it into machine readable format.

To do this my original idea was to use Docling (https://docling-project.github.io/docling/). Which is a document processing software suite created by IBM. However, after discussion with Ken he pointed me to using PaddleX (https://github.com/PaddlePaddle/PaddleX/blob/release/3.2/README_en.md), a development toolkit created by Chinese researchers for the PaddlePaddle framework.

The benefit of using PaddleX is that it integrates with a much stronger model that provides deeper object detection than other leading document processors. In reviewing the following paper, PP-Doclayout (https://arxiv.org/html/2503.17213v1) breaks down content of a PDF document down to a much deeper hierarchy than Doclayout-YOLO (https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.12628).

With a technology picked and some data selected I can now begin building. The initial idea is to investigate the PaddleX libraries and get a working demonstration of parsing a document. Once that is down I will move what I've development onto the server to expose to REST APIs to other students and researchers on the team.

This is a great first step to tackle because it provides something tangible for us to achieve. One can only begin to solve problems if they are proficient enough in a domain in order to understand its problems. So... let's play around and see what problems we might run into.
