# Research Day Debrief

## Introduction

This past Monday, January 19th, was the Computer Science research day at the university where students had the opportunity to present their research progress. After a busy week I was able to have my poster completed and submitted for printing on January 12th, and it turned out very good.

## State of Research

On research. I must pick up where I left off prior to the poster work. That is now refining the alignment and the embeddings algorithms. I've been learning about methods to refine matches to generate more accurate embeddings and I want to explore those possibilities. Though, before going too deep into that I must adjust how the alignment is calculating matches. We must be strict on candidate matches being taken for an actual match. In order to do that we would need to create the ground truth dataset.

Rather than doing rigorous work to ensure figures are being accurately depicted, I want to take the approach of masking the input to remove figures. This will take an extra processing step but will help greatly in our data reliability. This is because alignment between PPX and Mistral's figure representation is difficult due to a difference in processing methodology. Essentially, mistral does not natively include figures and figure text in the md. It provides figure location without the text. So many text fragments are lost without a real mapped location in Mistral's md.

## Next Steps

I see my next steps as follows, with some new design techniques to try:

1. Create masked version of a document.
2. Create ground truth dataset for evaluation. Refine problems identified with alignment algorithm.
3. Use BM25 (https://dl.acm.org/doi/abs/10.1561/1500000019) for retrieval.
4. Combine BM25 with dense retrieval (https://www.sbert.net/examples/sentence_transformer/applications/semantic-search/README.html)
5. Use re-ranking to refine candidate locations (https://sbert.net/examples/sentence_transformer/applications/retrieve_rerank/README.html)
6. Optional: Implement a knowledge graph that can expand the query based on entities (nodes) in the graph.
7. Use ensemble voting to determine top candidates.
