# Update

Published: true

## Update

Ken has been working on a Svelte implementation of the frontend application. He took a lot of the base our original ideas (that I built in January) for a frontend and recreated it with the new layout tree.

The system looks good but definitely has some areas for improvement. Some things like tying loose ends as well as completing features will be required. My goal is to complete this this weekend and move on into writing the paper next week. Which leaves the two priorities as follows:

1. Finish frontend demo of PPX.
2. Write paper for PPX.

# The Focus

The focus for the frontend is to just depict the alignment between the markdown and the document. We won't go as far as the query system because that adds a layer of depth that is out of scope. But for the frontend I want to focus on an interactive display of the parsed document data. There are some things we'll have to keep in mind, though. Such as:

- We will have to remove tables from the alignment, possibly figures too.
- Right now it only aligns images to md. Some way to align pure PDF to markdown would be great.
- There is no evaluation on the alignment. We will have to save that for future work.

Once we have a beautiful frontend then we will move on to writing the paper.

# The Paper

The goal of the paper is to elegantly formulate our problem and put it in a standout way among other theses. We will post it to arXiv as `v1` of the paper. Allowing a baseline for us to iterate in the future (such as refining the alignment, benchmarking, etc.).

We will cover concepts such as the following:

- thesis
  - What alignment exists today?
  - What is the purpose of alignment?
  - what neural network architectures are used for paddleocr?
  - have a formal data modeling of the output of paddleocr.
    - text segment and word identification
    - layout analysis
  - our framework:
    - visual tokens (VT) (produced by paddleocr), hierarchical organization
    - text tokens (TT) (produced by markdown extraction)
  - alignment problem:
    - define the alignment function as: visual tokens to source spans
    - constraints:
      - alignment must respect reading order, and parent-child relation in layout tree
    - quality of alignment: scoring function based total similarity between VT and TT.
    - algorithms:
      - DP formulation: O(nL^2) where n = |VT|, L = |TT|. Guarantees optimal solution.
      - GREEDY: O(nL)
      - Hybrid: if L < c, use DP, else use GREEDY.
    - future work:
      - evaluation
