# Ash Wednesday

## Ash Wednesday

I am a Reformed Christian, currently a part of a church in the Baptist tradition but theologically more in line with the Presbyterian tradition of Christianity.

Today marks the first day of Lent, Ash Wednesday. In my limited and growing understanding of the Christian traditions Ash Wednesday, and Lent for that matter, marks the beginning of an important period in the yearly calendar for the Church. This is the time where the Church reflects on the life, death, burial, resurrection, and ascension of our Lord Jesus Christ. It is a time for the Christian to look inward, humbly realize his lack and fix his gaze upward at the most important event in history. To the One who came, condescended down and was humiliated for us.

There is nothing so treacherous in all human history as the unjust murder of the Lord Jesus. The man who knew no sin bore the weight of the sins of His creation and paid their debt in full. Something so undeserved, yet so greatly needed. For man himself could never on his own accord do right by God. Only through the sacrifice of the spotless lamb could we be reconciled to the Father.

This Lent season I, along with my wife, will be observing the Holy tradition more closely than we have before. We pray that with the upcoming 45 days of reflection God may work through us and grow us closer to Him. To humble us and make straight our paths. And that we may glorify Him in all that we do, even when what we do is riddled with grotesque sin.

I end with the Gloria Patri:

```
Glory be to the Father,
and to the Son,
and to the Holy Spirit,
as it was in the beginning,
is now,
and ever shall be,
world without end.

Amen.
```
