# Evangelicalism

Published: false

## What is Evangelicalism?

This is a question that I am seeking to find out. Over the last year I have felt this spiritual change within me desiring a more traditional and historic church `experience`. What I mean by the term experience I cannot quite put to words. What I know, and _feel_ for that matter, is that I experience a certain shallowness or lack of depth with the line of beliefs and traditions practiced by my denomination (Fellowship of Evangelical Baptists). This isn't to say that the people at my church or the fellowship as a whole is not pious and do not love the Lord. There is just a lack of personal connection that I have as a congregant and it is negatively affecting my spiritual life.

Now, this general disposition is not just towards FEB churches. I sense that same shallowness at non-denominational and pentecostal churches also. I do not wish to list my gripes and so feel vindicated but in turn actually do an error to the believers of these church bodies. For even if I believe aspects of their practice is incorrect I do not discount their piety (on a large-scale).

What I do desire to do, however, is to air some thoughts as to why I feel a certain shallowness when participating in these churches. In so doing I hope to better understand myself, my own spiritual pride, and find the path forward where I may rekindle my love for the Lord and repent of my sins causing disunity within the church.

## So, What is it?

Whenever we consider a decision to investigate it is vital to go back to the origins. In Calculus, one can always to back to First Principles when working with derivatives. In history, we must go back to the original source and define our terms. So, let's go back in time and find out what Evangelicalism _actually is_, what it _set out to be_, and _what it has become today_. In my study I will rely mostly on digital articles. But, if by chance I am able to find resources in my library that can meet the topics of this theme I will also reference them where appropriate.

## Origins

https://www.astudyofdenominations.com/movements/evangelicalism/
https://www.nae.org/what-is-an-evangelical/
https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/0805448608?ie=UTF8&camp=1789&creative=9325&creativeASIN=0805448608
https://www.thegospelcoalition.org/blogs/evangelical-history/evangelical-christianity-begin/

The origin of the word _evangelical_ comes from the Greek word _euangelion_, which means "good news" or "Gospel". Though, it seems the exact definition can mean many things to different people. Some refer to modern evangelicals as a subset of Protestants following the non-denominational and charismatic movements of the past 50-75 years. While that may be a small subset in North America, that does not represent a <span data-tip="A proper subset A of set B (denoted A ⊂ B) is a subset that contains all elements of A in B">**proper** subset </span> globally nor historically. Others believe it began as a result of the Puritan movement dating back to the 18th century. My belief, in contrast, is that the term evangelicalism dates back to Martin Luther and the reformation. Such that _the term evangelical identifies Protestant Christian denominations who believe in the personal conversion of the inner man._

## Where it Changed

The 20th century brought forth many changes to the evangelical climate such as the Pentecostal/Charasmatic Movement, Fundamentalism,

## Who is Evangelical?

## What is it Today?

## What is the path forward?
